[Music]
Veronica is a Spanish horror movie
directed by Paco Plaza set in June 1991
it tells the story of a haunting and
possession brought on by the use of an a
Ouija board during an eclipse throughout
the movie there are several callbacks to
the real-life case in which the movie is
an adaptation of such as key dates and a
police report in this video I will be
discussing some of the true light events
that inspired the movie as well as
explaining what I take its ending to
mean the movie opens with our
protagonist Veronica using a Ouija board
in an attempt to summon her deceased
father the ritual is interrupted mid
seance and therefore unable to be
completed which allows a demon to remain
in the living world throughout the film
this spirit haunts Veronica and taunt
her family to no end
realizing that she must banish the demon
veronica reenacts the original ritual
and when things go wrong she is murdered
by the monster the police arrive on the
scene to witness the devastation and
thus the famous police report is created
while certain events have been adapted
the police report Israel and several
scans are available online to be read in
their full gory detail known as the
Velasquez case by spanish-language
paranormal sites the real story differs
slightly from the fictional film the
case takes its name from the madrid
neighborhood where a young woman
estefania Gutierrez Lazaro rather than
Veronica reportedly performed a seance
at school this similar to the movie the
girl was attempting to reach out to one
of her friends boyfriends that had
recently passed away during a motorcycle
accident a nun brokerage aboard ending
or interrupting the ritual but the group
that participated described seeing a
strange smoke going up through
estefania's mouth and nose
following this estefania would sometimes
go into a rage barking at her brothers
she would also reportedly tell her
Aaron said she saw evil shadows walking
past her room at night worried sick her
parents took their daughter to see
several doctors but none of them could
find anything physically wrong with her
estefania died but not at home battling
a demon instead she passed away in a
Madrid Hospital in August 1991 the
police report doesn't really have much
to do with her estefania's family didn't
get them involved until more than a year
after her death they did however report
hearing a loud noise coming from an
empty porch the door of a perfectly
closed armoire opened in a sudden and
totally unnatural way and a crucified
Jesus separated from his cross the later
ghost encounters would receive a slurry
of multiple witnesses the actual basis
for the plot of Veronica is little more
than an anecdote though the facts of the
case aren't quite as spectacular as the
events in Veronica the police report
contains evocative descriptions calling
it a situation of mystery and rarity the
events were witnessed by three officers
and the chief inspector of the National
Police so this goes a long way in
explaining why the velasca case
continues to enjoy so much attention in
Spain while the ending of Veronica is
very clear in the young girl's death the
meaning behind it is completely open to
interpretation
personally I view veronica as a willing
participant in her suicide realizing
that the demon would not leave her or
her family alone until it got what it
wanted she sacrifices herself in a bid
to rid those she cares about from its
presence Veronica had a very unstable
life she was practically the sole carer
for her three brothers and sisters due
to the fact that her mother was so
absent in their life because of the long
hours she were the death of her father
must have had a huge impact on the girl
especially because it happened at such a
young age and the longing to be reunited
with him may have pushed her final act
in the movie we see that daemon finally
claimed her in the film's climax but as
she had already severed a main vein the
possession will likely only be that of a
cadaver meaning that the monster was
enabled to go and inflict pain on others
as it had been doing earlier in the film
with things like the hot tap and
strangulation this is a courageous move
by the girl and we can take some solace
in the fact that we see a photo
reassemble in
movies closing shop symbolizing that she
has been made whole again and perhaps
has been reunited with her father once
more in the next life
Veronica is a brilliant foreign movie
that we are very lucky to have on
Netflix if you haven't seen the film
then I definitely recommend that you
check it out
well it's not perfect there is still a
lot to enjoy and the horror fans will
find plenty to love thanks very much for
taking the time out to watch this video
I would really appreciate it if you
subscribe to my channel as I create
videos like this weekly and I'm sure
you'll find something on here that
you'll love if you're interested in more
of my videos and please check out my
recent explanation of the Cloverfield
paradox which is linked on my channel
thanks very much for watching my video
and I'll see you next time take care
peace
[Music]